I want to dedicate this blog post to all the other women in information
security, new or veteran. I think it is so important to share our stories so
others canknow it is okay if you do not find information security, or even
technology related careers in a tradition, been doing this your whole life,
kind of path. 

## Early On
To be honest, if you would have asked me at a young age if I was going to have
something to do with computer security when I grew up, I would have given you a
very strange look, and probably told you that I was going to be president, I
didn't have time for computers. Computers were cool, I enjoyed going online, or
playing games on them. However, girls didn't do that for a living, girls
weren't encouraged to take a major interest in information technology. Sure, we
all had to take a typing class in middle school. However that was as much as my
school required me to take. In high school, I became interested in math and
sciences, mostly due to a few phenomenal teachers I had that made it fun for
me. It was a fun challenging puzzle. My school also required us to take math
and science courses, while computer courses were an elective.

## Fast forward to community college
By the time I graduated in 2007, I knew what I wanted to be. I wanted to be an
engineer and use physics on a daily basis. I loved taking AP Calculus and AP
Physics in high school, so I figured, sure, why not make a career out of this?
I chose to go to community college because I came from a lower income family
and to me, community college made more financial sense. Washtenaw Community
College was as fine a school as any to me. They had a pre-engineering focus I
could transfer to many different schools. I enjoyed it, until I hit the dreaded
Differential Equations. At that point, math no longer made sense to me. I also
found a lack of faith in what job I could get after graduation. Sure, I would
be an engineer, but what did that really mean? What would I do day to day?
Where would I apply for jobs? Would I be needed by the time I graduated? I
began to despair.

Between Differential Equations and my loss of faith in my career choice, I
slowed down on the number of classes I was taking. I was trying to find my
place in this world. What did I really want to be when I grew up? Then life
started catching up with me. Car payment, phone payment, rent, insurance,
utilities, just so many bills. I decided to take only a few classes if I could,
and ensure I worked 40 hours a week. I bounced from retail job to retail job,
trying to tell myself I would be happy being a manager at a retail store. I got
a different job, and tried to tell myself I could settle here. However, I was
never happy where I was. I knew I couldn't do this for the rest of my life. I
decided to try another major - first as a healthcare professional. I figured I
could take a few classes and see if I liked it. I didn't, I'm completely
terrified of needles and hate sick people. So that was out. Next I decided
business. So many people get their bachelors in Business. That makes sense
right?However, I ran into the same issue I had in engineering - What job would
I have if I had a degree in Business? Did I really want to do something like
accounting, or marketing? Not really... Maybe HR! Oh wait, I have a lot of
social anxiety and I hate confrontation if I can avoid it.

While working as an office manager for a landscape company I finally got an
idea. In the first couple months of when I started, the company was upgrading
their entire network, of 5 computers. However this gave me an idea - What is
never going away and could be fun? The guy installing our new network seemed to
really enjoy the challenge. Maybe I could too? I had enjoyed the internet for
most of my life, why not work with the machines that brought it? It took me
over a year to gather the courage to start. It was something I had never
considered before. I had no idea if I was going to be any good. I had a general
education class in community college that had to do with computers, but it had
been years since I had taken that class. I decided to meet with an advisor at
Washtenaw Community College, and see what my options were. They referred me to
Eastern Michigan University's Information Assurance program. I met with an
advisor there, and he told me tales of riches and fortune. He told IA was one
of the most flourishing fields, and women had a ton of opportunities, such as
scholarships and grants. I decided to take the risk. 

## My first semester in IA
In the Fall of 2014, I finally started going back to school. I enrolled at EMU,
taking 3 intro classes, Introduction to Information Security, Risk and
Vulnerability Analysis, and Concepts of Network and Business Technology. It was
possibly the most intimidating semester I've ever had. Here I was at 24, trying
a new major where I had no real experience. While my Introduction to
Information Security class was helpful in learning the very basics, it was
online, so it had a minimal effect on my career. However, in both Risk and
Vulnerability Analysis, and Concepts of Network and Business Technology, I was
one of maybe 4 women. Otherwise, I was surrounded by men. Men who seemed to
know all of the concepts we were being taught. Men who had built their own
computers, or who had set up entire networks at their homes. I sat there
wondering what in the world a "cmd" was. What in the world was an IP address? I
thought the internet just happened through magic. All of this was brand new to
me.

In my Risk class, we at least looked at risk as a whole, not just strictly from
a technological aspect. We were assigned a class project of performing a risk
assessment on a local business. We broke the project into People, Process and
Technology risks. I was terrified to join the Technology group and instead
decided to lead the the People group because People were what I knew. I had
worked a number of odd jobs in customer service, so I figured I could handle
that. I was also quite fortunate to have a great professor in this class who
taught to all levels. He understood this was the first class many of us had
taken in the major, and introduced new concepts in a way that allowed everyone
in the class to learn. He also made it a point to reach out to every student to
help them any way he could.  I can never say thank you enough to him for doing
this. This was one of the classes that helped give me confidence in myself in
this major.

Things were a bit different in my Network class. This was much more tech
focused. It covered concepts such as basic networking, IPs, what a Windows
server was, all the topics necessary to go further into our major. However, for
me, a woman who had never thought about spelling IT before I decided to go into
this major, it was incredibly overwhelming. I sat in a room full of men who
seemed to almost be bored, while I was struggling to keep up. While the teacher
was a great person, he tended to jump around to different concepts very
quickly. I had an extremely hard time keeping up. I read each chapter twice
every week trying to make sure I understood the concepts we were learning. So
much of this class was brand new to me. However, being a room full of people
who seemed to understand what was going on, I was scared out of my mind to
raise my hand and ask a question I was sure was dumb. I didn't want to be
looked down on. It was hard enough being one of the few women in class, I was
afraid I didn't belong, I clearly didn't know as much as my peers.

One more thing happened to me that really made a difference in my life, I
joined our Information Assurance Student Association. The professor I had for
my Risk class told me about it, and I decided this was the best path for me.
Getting a chance to meet other people in the major that had been in the same
classes as me gave me hope I might find someone to help explain classes to me.
I hoped it could give me some of the support structure I needed to give me some
confidence in myself. This was probably the single best thing I decided to do
for my career. I made friends in this major. I got to learn from so many
different people who seemed to love being there. The club helped inspire me to
do better. They helped me feel like I really belonged in this major. I can
honestly say I would never have accomplished what I have without being in the
club. Later, I was elected to lead the club, which was such a great honor to
me.

## Finding where I belong
After succeeding in my first semester, I continued to study hard and dedicate
all my free time to learning this craft. There have definitely been a few times
where I have struggled, particularly in trying to find my first internship in
the field. It can be quite demoralizing having a tough time getting a job,
being turned down from company after company, just trying to get your first
break. However, because I not only reached out within the club, I also reached
out within the infosec community in Michigan and attended every meet up and
gathering I could, I started to gain more confidence that I would find a job. I
finally found my first summer internship from a friend and fellow classmate
that allowed me to test the waters of this field, and love it even more. I've
been very lucky to find a great support system that allows me to learn from my
peers and help them learn as well. If it wasn't for the patience of people in
my first semester in this major, I would never have succeeded in the way I did.

## Wrapping up
Thank you to everyone who read all the above. I hope this helps inspire some
women who feel they may not belong in the field to realize they do, and they
need to find a group to help them gain confidence in who you are. Every person
who wants to learn tech belongs, no matter how you started out. I also want to
thank every one ofthe people I've met in the community. Every person has helped
me in some way to become a contributing member to this field. I also hope all
of you who have read this will take some time and think about how you can give
back to a community that gave so much to you. Volunteer for outreach programs
for people of minorities to join the field. Reach out to student organizations
and inspire the next generation of security professionals by giving a talk
about what you do. It truly can make the difference of someone believing in
themselves and aspiring to greater things.
