This week I've kept myself quite busy. My plans this week included planning 
for the upcoming academic year's events for EMU's Information Assurance 
Student Association (IASA), creating a ground plan for working with a 
graduate student on their independent study, attending Duo's Tech Talk on TLS, 
and attending Girl Develop It's Code and Coffee. All the while working on this 
site, updating a few things here and there, and starting to plan for the back 
end programming.

## IASA Club Planning!

One of my most exciting extracurricular activities is helping run the IASA. In 
case you are unaware, the IASA is a student organization at Eastern Michigan 
run by the students for the students. I joined in Fall 2014, and have loved 
working in it ever since.

Early this week I met up with our faculty advisor to start deciding what the 
major goals and events are for this year. As always, we set aside dedicated 
time to practice for the competitions we compete in every year, the Collegiate 
Cyber Defense Competition and the Information Security Talent Search. We also 
set some time aside for what I am most excited for, the IASA Science Fair! With 
this, we allow students to showcase the projects they have been working on, and 
share their experiences. By far this is the best event we host all year. It 
really allows the students to show what they have learned in school and how 
they applied it to their at home studies.

## RF Hacking project

Another project I will be working on this summer is helping one of the 
graduate students in the Information Assurance program. She has decided to do 
an independent study on stealing keys through radio frequencies using a 
[paper](http://www.cs.tau.ac.il/~tromer/papers/radioexp.pdf) by the Tel Aviv 
University. Once I heard there was an opportunity to work on this with her, I 
jumped at it. While I do not know much about this medium, I am eager to learn. 
Next week I plan on working hard to learn more about SDR to startlaying the 
groundwork to help on this.

## Duo Security's Tech Talk: Were It So Easy: TLS in the Real World

Thursday I was fortunate enough to attend [Duo
Security's](https://www.duosecurity.com/) 
Tech Talk for this month. University of Michigan's Computer Science and 
Electrical Engineering graduate program was kind enough to do a presentation 
on TLS and their [Zmap](https://zmap.io/) project. To start this presentation, 
[David Adrian](https://twitter.com/davidcadrian) explained some basic concepts 
of TLS, then proceeded to show the data they had gathered through Zmap. He also 
taught us more about Heartbleed and Logjam.

I feel quite lucky to have attended this. It was a great event where I was able 
to meet new people, as well as connect with fellow students from school while 
we are all away for the summer. I look forward to attending many more. This 
event shows how great the Information Security community truly is. It makes me 
so proud to be apart of it. If you are interested, they have uploaded a youtube 
[video](https://youtu.be/Skp8g_xFqpA) where you can listen to the entire talk. 
Also look out for my brief question at 49:00!

## Girl Develop It: Code and Coffee

Today I was able to also attend 
[Girl Develop It](http://www.meetup.com/Girl-Develop-It-Ann-Arbor/)
Coffee and Code. This is a fantastic meetup group that give women in the IT 
field meet together in an open and completely friendly environment. It gives 
us a great opportunity to network with other like minded who go through the 
same struggles and challenges. It is also inspiring to see so many women in 
the field doing so well.

## TLDR:

I may overschedule myself, expect amazing things from IASA, go to fun community 
events too.
