It has been far too long since the last post I've made. I've kept myself quite
busy this semester. I took 4 classes: Embedded Systems, Malware Analysis and
Reverse Engineering, Windows Administration and Art 101. Yeah, okay, so Art
didn't keep me crazy busy, but the rest sure did. I also organized a conference
(YOLOcon for the win!) as well as spoke at it. I organized the practice for the
Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition and the Information Security Talent Search
for two teams each, and competed in both competitions. I founded the Women in
IA group at EMU and organized 4 meetings. I attended the Women in Cyber
Security Conference in Dallas Tx. Lastly, I worked 3
days a week at Virta Labs as an intern. 

Now that I listed out everything I did last semester, I feel less bad about not
completing any blog posts. Below I'll go into a bit more detail about some of
my adventures.

## All dem classes

This semester I had two incredibly intense classes, Malware Analysis and
Reverse Engineering and Embedded systems. Both pushed the limits of my
knowledge, and forced me to learn more about lower level languages than I
expected. In hindsight, I am incredibly grateful I took the classes together,
and they actually complemented each other quite nicely. I was also glad I
balanced those two difficult classes with two simpler classes, Art and Windows
Administration.

Embedded Systems was a class dedicated to teaching us how to program a
microcontroller and its various peripherals. Some of those include LEDs, input
buttons,an LCD screen, and a temperature sensor. In this class I was able to
expand my knowledge in C programming as well as a smidge of assembly. I was
also taught how to read datasheets and circuit diagrams. For our final project
we had to use all the different areas on the board we learned and create a
project for it. I decided to create a reaction based game. It sets the LEDs on
the board to blink at a specified rate, and requires the player to press a
particular button when the last LED in the row is lit. It then increases the
speed of the blinks, and increases the score. Lastly, it stores the high score
in EEPROM so everyone can try for the highest score. Overall, despite it being
incredibly challenging, it was also a great learning experience for me. It
reaffirmed why I chose to pick up a minor.

In Malware Analysis and Reverse Engineering, I was able to learn different
techniques to find out what a file may contain, as well as different routines
to perform dynamic analysis. Lastly, we learned how to disassemble binaries to
examine the code the hold.

My Windows Administration class was an introduction to basic Windows Server
administration. In this class, we set up Active Directory and DHCP as well as
how to manage users, groups and OUs. We dived into Group Policy and file
services as well.

## YOLOCon

YOLOCon was one of my greatest accomplishments this semester. The Information
Assurance Student Association decided we needed to host our own conference, as
well as fund raise to enable us to be self sufficient. We accomplished this by
reaching out to local businesses and asking them to sponsor our first student
driven conference. We spent any of our free time planning which talks to host,
scheduling, and reaching out to all students in our major to participate. In
the end we managed to procure 5 sponsors, as well as host 15 different talks. I
look forward to organizing another next year!

## Competitions

Another point of pride for me last semester was the fact we sent two teams to
both the Information Security Talent Search and the Collegiate Cyber Defense
Competition. For each, our student organization practiced weekly from November
until March. I personally orchestrated the CCDC practice, and helped plan the
ISTS practice. We were able encourage over 16 students to participate in these
competitions, as well as take home a third place trophy at CCDC.

## Women in Cyber Security Conference

In between competitions and YOLOCon, I had the honor of receiving a scholarship
to attend the 3rd annual Women in Cyber Security Conference. This conference
lasted 3 days at the end of March in Dallas, TX. It was a great opportunity to
meet other very successful women in the field. It was absolutely inspiring to
chat with each of them. I feel as if I made some great connections while I was
there. One of the most surprising facts was how many people I met that lived in
Michigan, many of which had graduated out of the same program I am in now!
While I was there, I was also able to attend an exploit development workshop. I
was able to practice developing exploits, and was able to understand buffer
overflows to a greater extent I was also able to compete in my first full CTF.
Facebook held their own on their new platform. It was a lot of fun to focus on
something so technical for the end of the conference.
